# Writing Assignment 1: Your first journal article
# 
**Due Wed, October 4**

In this assignment, you will be reading a scientific journal article
about a recent astronomical discovery. But before we dive into the
literature, we'll read a summary of the journal article written for
undergraduates by the website [**astrobites**](https://astrobites.org).
There will be questions to guide you through the readings, which you
should answer and turn in on October 4. Typed answers are preferred, but
handwritten ones will be accepted if they are clearly legible. *_Note all questions that require answers are in italics_* 

It may help to review the [presentation
slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/
1Ihefe2NhulD2zoC4iDlBLy_HGDdKhepwq2s475MMsmc/edit?usp=sharing) that I
showed in class for extra context.

## Part 1
## 
Read [this astrobites
article](https://astrobites.org/2017/02/22/trappist-1-just-right/) on
the discovery of _seven_ planets orbiting an ultracool star close to the
Sun, TRAPPIST-1. There are links throughout the article to further
explanations, don't hesitate to read more if there's something you could
understand better, and don't be afraid to use Google too. Reading your
first scientific paper will expose you to lots of words you haven't seen
before, and that's ok!

Explain in your own words, in no more than a few sentences:

*1. What kind of star is TRAPPIST-1 and in what ways (please list at
least 2) is it remarkable or interesting?*

*2. The planets around TRAPPIST-1 were discovered by the _transit_
method; what is the transit technique and how is it used to discover
planets? **Reminder:** a long essay is not necessary to respond to this
answer, three sentences or so will do.*

*3. What is the size scale of the TRAPPIST-1 system? In other words, how
far away are the planets from their host star (TRAPPIST-1), in
comparison to how far away planets in our solar system is from the sun?*

*4. What are transit timing variations (TTVs), and what information
about the system can TTVs tell us?*

*5. What is the habitable zone, and are any of the TRAPPIST-1 planets in
this zone?*

*6. What do the left and right panels of Figure 1 show? Describe each
axis in a few words, and what's so exciting about the data.*

*7. How would the data in Figure 1 look different if the planet were
_larger in size_?*

## Part 2
## 
Now you have some context that will enable you to understand some of the
text in the [journal article, Seven temperate terrestrial planets around
the nearby ultracool dwarf star
TRAPPIST-1](https://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v542/n7642/pdf/
nature21360.pdf?foxtrotcallback=true). Let's take a guided look through
the journal article.

* **Start with the Abstract.** The abstract of the paper is the bolded
section at the beginning. An abstract is a short summary of the entire
paper that lists the big results concisely.

* The next five paragraphs are a bit technical, as they describes the
observations that were taken, and the various techniques used to search
for periodic signals in the observations. We can skip over these
paragraphs.

* The paragraph beginning with "Table 1 shows the main..." describes the
results of their modeling/findings, such as physical characteristics of
the planets; many of these are expressed in the table.

* The next paragraph, beginning with "The derived planetary orbital
inclinations...", describes some special characteristics about the
family of planets as a whole -- you can skip this paragraph.

* The next paragraph, beginning with "The stellar irradiation of the
planets..." talks about prospects for habitability for planets in the
TRAPPIST-1 system, as well as different types of modeling used to test
the compositions of these newly discovered worlds. There may be terms
you're unfamiliar with -- such as stellar irradiation, tidally
synchronous, runaway greenhouse -- do your best to read through this
paragraph with the aid of class slides and Google.

* Continue reading the next two short paragraphs; stop at the references
– there is lots of supplementary information below there that you don't
need to read.

Explain in your own words, in no more than a few sentences:

*1. What are the densities of these planets, and how do they compare to
bodies in our solar system?*

*2. Are any of the planets similar to Earth? If so, in what aspects are
they similar? If not, how are they dissimilar?*

*3. Look at Table 1: what is your interpretation on why the inner
planets (b and c) have far more number of transits observed than the
outer planets (d, e, f, g)?*


You may find it helpful to refer back to the astrobites article and the
references therein to help you answer these questions – use as many
additional resources as you need!
