# Writing Assignment 4: Understanding the Skeletals of a Paper aka Matching Abstracts to Figures

**Due: Mon, Oct 16**

One integral part of being a scientist is to *efficiently* read academic papers. Reading papers not only help keep you in the loop about the status of current research, but it also enable you to better communicate your own science, either by following the example of a well-written paper, or knowing what not to do with a poorly written document. 

By **efficiently**, I mean that most astronomers don't read every single paper beginning to end in detail (there are simply too many papers to do that!). Therefore it's crucial to learn how to quickly read a paper and extract the key results. That way, from your quick read, you can evaluate whether a particular paper is interesting or novel enough to revisit it in full. One typical approach is to first read a paper's title and abstract, then the introduction, and then some plots accompanied by the discussion/conclusion. See [this astrobites article](https://astrobites.org/2011/04/19/journal-articles-in-astronomy/) on reading journal papers in Astronomy, for more details.

In this assignment, you are randomly given a set of 3 abstracts and a set of 3 figures. These abstracts and figures come from 3 separate papers. It's your job to read each abstract and figure, and then figure out which figure matches which abstract (i.e., which two belong together). 

## Part 1: The Abstract
## 
First, let's read each abstract: [ABSTRACT 1](http://staff.washington.edu/windemut/premap/abstract1.png), [ABSTRACT 2](http://staff.washington.edu/windemut/premap/abstract2.png), [ABSTRACT 3](http://staff.washington.edu/windemut/premap/abstract3.png). There will be terms you haven't seen before, do your best to infer their meaning with the help of google. For **each** of the 3 abstracts, answer the following questions in 2-4 sentences each:

*1. What is the astronomical object or objects being studied here?*

*2. What is the key finding or result presented in the abstract, and why is it interesting or important?*

*3. What instrument/tools were used to obtain the data (if specified), and what type of observations were made?*


## Part 2: The Figure
##
Next, let's read the figures: [FIGURE 1](http://staff.washington.edu/windemut/premap/figure1.pdf), [FIGURE 2](http://staff.washington.edu/windemut/premap/figure2.pdf), [FIGURE 3](http://staff.washington.edu/windemut/premap/figure3.pdf) (note order is random from abstract!). Figures can be daunting, because there is so much information encompassed. Look at the figures, and use the figure caption below to help aid your understanding. For **each** of the 3 figures, answer the following questions:
*1. What do the axes of the figure mean (if figure has multiple panels, please answer for each panel), and what are their units?*

*2. What does the figure demonstrate or illustrate? If there are multiple panels that show a common concept, you can note that. If each panel conveys a different message, please specify for each panel.*

## Part 3: Connect the Dots
##
Now, let's match them up! 
*1. Which figure and which abstract belongs together?*

*2. For each match, how did you come to this conclusion? Explain your thought process here in a few sentences. You can state the obvious answers (e.g., the abstract mentions object X, and the figure shows observations of object X), but I'm looking for more in-depth analyses. Think of this question as, how is the content of the abstract reflected in the figure, or how does the figure support the content of the abstract?*

*3. Which is your favourite abstract+figure and why? (Maybe it was the most interesting scientifically, or maybe it was the most clearly written abstract or understandable figure.)*

